 -[Narrator] Welcome to Module 3 Accessible Microsoft PowerPoint Documents. In this video, you will learn how to make your PowerPoint documents accessible to all learners.  In this section, we will set your document title and language. Setting the document title in PowerPoint is much like we did in Word. In your PowerPoint presentation, Click File, then select Info. From the right-hand panel, locate the Properties section. Click on the space indicated to the right of Title. Enter a descriptive title here,  such as "Accessible Slide Design."  To set the document language, go to the Review tab,  select Language, and choose Set Proofing Language.  From the list, select your desired language, such as English (United States). Check the box labeled  "Do not check spelling or grammar," and then click OK to apply your settings. Now that we have given the title and set the preferred language for our PowerPoint, people can understand the document context without opening it and interpret the content accurately. In this section, we will set clear unique titles for each slide. Each slide requires a different title for accurate communication with assistive technologies. Slide titles can be checked by selecting View from the menu and clicking Outline View. A panel will appear to the left of the screen, indicating the names of each slide in the presentation, and they appear at the top of each slide. If there is a title duplication, it will need to be adjusted.  For instance, if two slides are titled "Common Barriers," you could add "Part 1" and "Part 2,"  like this example here.  In this section, we will add alternative text and create accessible hyperlinks. Images, graphs, or charts should include alternative text or be described as decorative. To add alternative text,  right-click on the image and select Alt Text in the pop-up menu. The Alt Text pane will show to the right of your screen. If the image contains meaningful information, add alternative text in the empty box describing the content and purpose.  In this example, the alternative text would be  "Students with disabilities drop out at about twice the rate of their non-disabled peers." It is a best practice to keep descriptive phrases brief. Do not begin the description with words "Image of ..." or  "Picture of ..."; screen readers automatically use the term "Image." If the image is simply decorative, leave the description field box blank and check Mark as decorative; close the Alt Text pane to apply changes.  Microsoft PowerPoint automatically creates a hyperlink when a URL is added to a slide. However,  to meet accessibility requirements, hyperlinks must be clear and actionable, allowing users to understand where the link is leading them. To add meaningful language, right-click on the link.  Select Edit. At the top of this window, you will enter a descriptive title such as "Visit the Official WCAG 2.1 guidelines from W3C"  instead of "Click Here." "Visit the Official  WCAG 2.1 guidelines from W3C" alerts someone listening to a screen reader that there is an actionable item in the document. Designing a visually appealing presentation can often go against accessibility requirements. Color choice combinations can create difficulty for users to read text on the screen. Background and font color should have clear contrast between them. Using a black background with a white font works well. For example, this due date is in a light red font on a yellow background. These colors do not provide a good contrast, making it difficult to read. A suggestion would be to make the font color black and bold and remove the background.  In this section, we will adjust font size and fix reading order for accessibility.  Let's change some fonts. From the Slides pane on the left side of the screen, right-click on the slide, and select Duplicate Slide. On the new slide, delete the top three items from the list; select all text, and set font size to 24. Now, go to the previous slide, and delete the bottom three items. Now,  select the remaining text from the list and set font size to 24. Also, make sure each slide has a unique title. This will ensure that your text is accessible.  After setting up clear, readable text, the next step is to verify the slides reading order.  Verifying the read order of a slide is important, especially if additional content placeholders are added to the slide. To check or change a slide's reading order—in the Home tab at the top of your screen, click Arrange and click Selection Pane.  Your Selection pane will show to the right of your screen, listing all content found on your slide.  The screen reader will read content from bottom to top. In this example, right now the screen reader reads Picture 3, then Title 5, and finally  Rectangle 3. To fix this in the Selection pane, first drag Title 5 down to the bottom;  next, place Rectangle 3 just above Title 5;  and keep Picture 3 above both objects. This sets the correct reading order.  In this section, we will run the accessibility checker and fix remaining issues manually.  As with all documents, accessibility should be checked. At the top of the screen, open the Review tab, then choose Check Accessibility. Any errors, warnings, and tips will show in the checker on the right side of your screen. In this example, I still have one accessibility issue—"Missing Slide Title". To fix it, select the error and then  choose Set as Slide Title; click Approve and the issue will be resolved. While the PowerPoint accessibility checker is helpful, it does not evaluate everything. For example, it cannot verify the font style or the size of text elements. On Slide 6, some list items are set to 11 point font, but the checker does not flag that. To fix this, I will change them to 24 point. Therefore, it is important for content creators to manually verify appropriate font styles and sizes are used,  and that color contrast meets accessibility standards.